# Metabolic Weighted Centrality

This repository contains the code to reproduce all results and figures related to the paper:
"Metabolism-weighted brain connectome reveals synaptic integration and vulnerability to neurodegeneration", by Mahnaz Ashrafi, Laura Fraticelli, Gabriel Castrillón, Valentin Riedl (2025).

## Reproducibility

You can run the provided notebooks to **replicate the figures and statistical results** reported in the main paper and supplementary materials.


## Folders Description

### `/scripts`

Contains two main Jupyter Notebooks:

- **`MwC_generation.ipynb`**  
  This script generates all intermediate data, including functional and structural connectivity matrices, as well as MwC and DC maps. It processes raw NIfTI images and saves all outputs in `/data/processed/`.

  - 🔗 **Raw data** required by this notebook can be downloaded from OpenNeuro:  
    [https://openneuro.org/datasets/ds004513](https://openneuro.org/datasets/ds004513)

- **`Figures_codes.ipynb`**  
  This notebook generates all the **main and supplementary figures**, and performs all **statistical tests** reported in the manuscript.

> 💡 If you don’t want to regenerate intermediate data, you can skip `MwC_generation.ipynb` and directly run `Figures_codes.ipynb`. All required data is already precomputed and stored in `/data/processed/`.

---


- `/data/processed/`  
  Contains all intermediate data generated by `MwC_generation.ipynb`, including connectivity matrices, MwC, and DC maps.

- `/data/external/`  
  Stores additional required files, such as atlases, neurosynth, gene expressions, all in regional-level data.  
  ⚠️ **Some external datasets are not  available here due to data privacy.** You may need to download them from their original source or contact the corresponding author (as listed in the manuscript’s Data Availability section).

- `/src/functions.py`  
  All helper functions used across notebooks are defined here.

- `/results/Figures/`  
  Contains all output figures generated by `Figures_codes.ipynb`.


Spatial autocorrelation was corrected using spherical rotations based on the HCP-MMP1.0 parcellation, using the sphere_HCP.txt file from the rotate_parcellation GitHub repository: 
https://github.com/frantisekvasa/rotate_parcellation

--------

<p><small>Project based on the <a target="_blank" href="https://drivendata.github.io/cookiecutter-data-science/">cookiecutter data science project template</a>. #cookiecutterdatascience</small></p>
